TIXI
====

Library for accessing XML content

CONTENT
-------
The lib directory contains the TIXI library and the library and its interfaces 
to fortran, matlab, python and java.

The Demo contains examples how to use the TIXI library together 
with a makefile showing how to compile and link programs
equipped with calls to the TIXI library. 

PREREQUISITES
-------------

Tixi depends on following software/libraries to build properly:

1. [cmake](http://www.cmake.org/)
2. [libxml2](http://xmlsoft.org/)
3. [libxslt](http://xmlsoft.org/XSLT/)
4. [libcurl](http://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/)

For windows systems, the precompiled libraries (2 - 4) for the 32 and 
64 bit architecture can be downloaded from our project page.

Under linux, these libraries can be usually installed with the 
package manager of the linux distribution.

On Mac Systems, we advise to use [homebrew](http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/)
which allows an uncomplicated way of installing/compiling external software.
For example libxslt can be installed via 

    brew install libxslt


BUILD INSTRUCTIONS
------------------

Tixi uses the cmake build system, which can generate build scripts for e.g. 
MS Visual Studio, Apple XCode, Eclipse CDT, GNU Makefiles and many more. In 
order to use cmake, it has to be downloaded first from [here](http://www.cmake.org/). 
Under linux we advise to install the packages cmake and cmake-qt-gui.

Cmake is able to create out-of-source builds, i.e. it uses a different build 
directory than the source directory. After starting the cmake gui, the locations
of the source and the build directory have to be specified.

After pressing "Configure", cmake tries to find the locations of the required 
libraries automatically. If cmake fails, one can either specify the additional
include path "ADD_INCLUDE_PATH" and the library path "ADD_LIB_PATH" or directly 
specify the paths for each library.

If the configuration succeeds, the build scripts (VC Project Files, Makefiles etc)
have to be generated by pressing "Generate". The generated files can then be opened
with Visual Studio etc... If the Unix Makefile generator was chosen, change into 
the build directory and type "make".

After a succesful compilation, the compiled TIXI library and its interfaces can be 
found in the "lib" directory of the build tree.

MATLAB INTERFACE
----------------

In order to create the matlab interface, MATLAB has to be installed on the build 
system. MATLAB is currently not found automatically, thus the MATLAB installation
directory has to be specified with the cmake variable "MATLAB_DIR". After pressing 
"Configure" again, cmake should find all required includes files and library files
for the generation of the matlab interface.

FORTRAN INTERFACE
-----------------

A fortran compiler is not required to build the fortran interface. However, as different
fortran compilers have different name manglings, it has to be specified for which
fortran system the tixi interface should be build. This is done by specifying 
the variable 

    CMAKE_Fortran_COMPILER

Valid options are:

    ifort (Intel fortran compiler)
    gfortran
    g77
    g77_irix
    f90

